foreign
welcome to another episode of the saster
cro confidential podcast I'm your host
Sam blonde delighted to be back here
today and do we have a special guest for
you all
um Cameron deach is the cro at atlassian
one of the largest enterprise software
companies in the world Cameron has been
there for over a decade just an
incredible run I'm thrilled to have you
here Cameron thank you for doing this
and welcome to the show yeah thanks a
lot Sam thanks for having me
so uh when I think of atlassian there
are a couple things that come to mind uh
one of which we're not going to spend
time on but I have to acknowledge it
atlassian as I referenced earlier one of
the largest and most successful
Enterprise software companies in the
world trading it over 40 billion dollars
right now that's in sort of rarified air
for an Enterprise software company and
the second thing that comes to mind
which is where we are going to spend a
bunch of time it's it has to be the
largest uh product LED growth Enterprise
software company in the world and sort
of famous for product-led growth and
um when I talked to uh earlier stage
companies which is almost definitionally
everyone
um the the the conundrum today is should
we uh immediately build out uh big sales
team or should we focus on product lead
growth I think that's the sort of like
bifurcation that exists for earlier
stage companies build sales or focus on
product-led growth I'd love to learn
more about what product LED growth means
today at atlassian as a far more mature
company but first if you can describe
atlassian's model and what made it
different maybe that's good uh context
and then would love to learn how you all
think about product LED growth again
which is probably quite different than
an earlier stage startup great uh easy
enough let's see where this goes and as
you can imagine I talked to plenty of
new Founders or other cross and and
about this exact conversation of how do
you balance product LED with sales can
they coexist so on and so forth but
really quickly on atlassian I'm assuming
most your audience is aware of atlassian
we have been in business 20 years
headquarters Sydney Australia co-ceos
Mike and Scott founders of the business
north of three billion in Revenue uh
We've our biggest products of jira
software Confluence Geo service
management bitbucket we really focus on
helping teams work better together
across software I.T and broader
collaboration spaces so that's what we
do
uh over 250 000 paying customers and
hundreds of thousands of free customers
over that 20 years that we've been able
to acquire
um and largely 20 years ago when Mike
and Scott created the business they
would love to take full strategic
ownership of that they were product led
the reality is 2002 Sydney Australia
couldn't raise Capital largely selling
to developer audiences if they didn't
hire sales people because they didn't
believe in sales people they didn't hire
sales people because they couldn't
afford sales people
um and honestly the first decade of the
business was really about enabling a
self-serve
product experience about the entire
Journey from awareness to long-term
success and renewal it was until 2014
that we hired our first commission rep
so 12 years in business before we had to
even think about a commission plan
that uh is is incredible and uh I
imagine the business got to uh quite a
successful uh stage by then I think
y'all ipo'd sort of like 2015 time frame
if my memory serves me correctly
correctly and so just a few years
pre-ipo and still no dedicated sales
reps that's uh incredible that you made
it that far without any
um and and one layer deeper on the plg
um how how do you all think about it
today because now you do have sales reps
but I believe you still sort of consider
yourselves in this product-led growth
category how do you balance those two
things yeah so uh there's three ways to
buy from a lesson you could buy off the
website go up sign up put in your credit
card off you go you can buy through our
Channel Partners so another big part
that made this work is we went heavy on
third-party Channel resellers that are
also isps they do consult team
implementation you name it and we do
roughly a third of all of our bookings
through these third-party Channel
partners or you can buy directly through
our sales team or what largely happens
is a combination of all those is that
people will usually start with a
self-serve experience potentially get
engaged with a partner and we really
only engage our sales team with existing
customers
of a certain size so of those 250 000
customers we really only cover call it
five to six thousand of those with an
account manager and even with those
account managers it's purely an
expansion conversation it's about
getting our customers to the cloud or
getting them to the premium versions of
our products or checking out new
products so uh so what I would say is we
by the time we are actually engaging
with humans we're not there convincing
them the value of atlassian what we're
doing is convincing them of the value of
standardizing on atlassian and that's
what our sales conversations are all
about
makes a lot of sense it and we'll spend
man so many questions uh but I I I it's
such a unique success story and so
that's why I'm so so glad to be talking
with you about it
um let's spend some time talking about
the evolution here because as I
mentioned almost definitionally folks
that are listening are going to be at
companies that are smaller than
atlassian just given your scale and so
something like 10 years before you
introduced your first sales rep but you
did mention like a reseller or
partnership uh BD type organization when
did that start compared to the
self-service just talk to me a little
bit about uh how that evolved over the
last 20 years yeah
good point so the you know we were
completely self-served buy off the
website it was on premises software in
2002 like we ship you bits you installed
on your Hardware we've since
transitioned to primarily a cloud SAS
business
um but I think we a lot brought on our
first solution partner three or four
years after we were founded uh formed
um and around it's not like we had a
structured program largely what was
happening is uh we had
good early adoption we had some real
power users out there in the industry
that just happened to be Consultants
like you know they would basically they
were doing I.T Consulting in general as
their business they started using jira
to manage their projects with their own
clients and then realize that hey they
could probably sell this jira thing you
know to help solve a lot of their
customers problems so it was much more
organic where they came to us and said
hey do you guys have a partnership
program I think we have a bunch of
customers I could introduce you to and
we started really lightweight now that
was a little before my time when we
started those things but it was like
just okay we'll have a little reseller
agreement we'll put you on the website
most importantly for a self-serve
business
um you know we'd get hundreds of
inbounds a day with people who kind of
expect the sales engagement you know
they were like hey I want pricing I want
a demo
um and we started kind of going down
there like hi let's do all this
one-to-one conversation between our
teams and customers and we're like ah
how are we going to scale this and the
reality is the way we made a decision
very early on is you know we're going to
try and optimize for one to many
everything atlassian does so instead of
doing a demo for just one client let's
do a demo record it post it on YouTube
so everyone can see the demo and if
people want one-to-one hand holding
we'll introduce them to our partners so
this allowed us to have that balance of
just immediate scale but also we weren't
completely just telling customers go
pound saying if you want to talk to
someone there were people out there that
represented atlassian
um and that really helped us grow in
that first first decade it was like that
partnership plus direct was a huge piece
of it amazing and so a couple things
come to mind one was uh this happened a
bit organically your resellers were also
your customers
um and so because of that there's a
little bit of like a viral component
although traditional viral uh is you're
actually interacting with the customers
I remember back at Echo sign we had a
very viral product we would send or our
customers would send a contract to be
electronically signed the uh signer
would use the product and be like wow
this is a lot easier than printing
signing and faxing back but what
happened at atlassian sounds like a
different variant of that but the end
result was relatively similar which was
you were able to acquire customers
through your customers which is a an
incredible Dynamic to have which is yeah
for to be perfect unless you are saying
we are going to be pure Enterprise like
you know we're already I would say
that's what I'm talking to Founders
because it's one like customer that most
new companies actually haven't made this
decision where it's like is your goal to
have a few thousand customers but make
millions from each of them
or is your goal to have hundreds of
thousands of customers but make tens of
thousands from each of them right and
most and it's a very because that
question alone will guide you down very
very different paths in your business
um and I've worked for both in this
organization you know and it's like well
we don't know it's like well
you know the product LED approach is is
very much get the hundreds of thousands
but how you think about your pricing
strategy your packages Saturday your
your online experience your everything
comes from that fundamental discussion
up front
makes a lot of sense and I'm going to
backtrack a little bit
um and I'm curious you uh you mentioned
something that uh uh sort of stood out
and it was that the founders of the
business didn't hire sales people in
part because they couldn't afford them
um this is two thousand two thousand two
thousand two I can't remember the exact
year
um maybe hadn't raised a lot of money
um if if you had raised money and could
afford them or if you were starting a
startup today if you were starting at
lassian today knowing everything that
you know
um would you do it differently would you
hire sales people or or would you uh
stick to the the sort of like uh play
script that that got you here
um
good question
you know it's always 2020 hindsight what
we have done differently I I always look
into this model the elastian or the
product LED growth model
you know at least how we Define it how
we've operated is it's good for giving
good growth consistently for many many
many years like so atlassian never had
triple digit growth except for maybe
like year one where it's like you know
from 300K to 1 million low base yeah but
instead we've been doing you know low to
mid 30 growth every year for 20 years
right and one we didn't take that there
was no funding so there was no pressure
from on high Beyond Mike and Scott
um and it was quarter model was let's be
very patient for growth that was one
like one of our key elements of we can
be patient let's think about things that
help us grow for the next 30 Years not
just grow this year to hit our number or
to appease our board that we didn't have
a board so Mike is kind of like it's one
they were just so that was very much in
their DNA of let's be patient let's
think systemic and think long term
across the board
in general I'll also say is I've been
here for the last 10 years I was kind of
employee 500-ish and now we're at 11
000.
um I think you can look back and go so
do we have done things faster and I'm
saying not not just add more sales
people but just in general as you grow
and as you get bigger and as you become
successful
it's it becomes easier to take a little
more time to do things and I think in
general as a DNA I think I I think we
would have done the same approach but
maybe we would have Consolidated the
years to make it happen an example that
not just adding sales everyone but we
went from a trial based model to a free
model right yeah we did that in 2020.
it's like actually actually we believe
it's been a massive success for us we
probably knowing what we know now we
probably would have done that in like
2017. you know but but we don't make
those decisions unless we've tested it
and take a long time and we're a public
company so it's it's in general I think
urgency
is something that any company should
continue to have in their DNA I'm not
saying we would have changed our
strategic decisions we just would have
probably done a little faster
it totally resonates man you guys are
the definition of successfully playing
the long game in just this consistent
really high and exciting growth
um but not sort of inorganic or
inauthentic growth at any point in the
business I've talked on this podcast
before about the other end of the
Spectrum which was my experience at
zenefits when relatively early we scaled
the sales team far too quickly uh and
did have you know a couple years of the
sort of like crazy percentage growth
even on a decent sized base
um but uh the inefficiencies within the
business uh uh became too big just too
much we grew too quickly and that was
certainly true uh within the head count
side and there are all sorts of
consequences of doing that in bricks my
experience after his and if it's was far
more measured at least in growing head
count because of that experience and I
think a lot of people and companies get
sort of like gratification out of
scaling head count really quickly and
really what folks should be focusing
focused on is scaling Revenue
efficiently uh and and not sort of like
you know badge of honor for how many
people we've hired that's not
necessarily a good thing
yeah like it's the it's interesting and
you see let's say like it's only the
five gas like head count becomes the
currency of the organization
you know and it's like and you have
people that people people build fiefdoms
unless I have thousands of people in my
organization today so if any of my teams
listen to me you're all wonderful I love
you all each and every one of you but
um
I'd say the corporate let's on the sales
thing specifically and I think the one
thing we had to break our model from is
you want to get away from a business
model where every incremental dollar
requires incremental hiring
right and if you and I say it's like if
a hundred and this I think is actually
start with Finance which is interesting
like this is if every if your operating
model like you build your next year
fiscal plan and if your next year fiscal
plan starts with here's our sales Target
thus here's how many sales people we
need and here's their quota
and then you work and like that's how
you're building that 95 of companies I
work with I have like that I talk to
have that business model you've
inevitably immediately tied like the
first thing you do is tie your sales to
your your overall Revenue number to how
many sales people you can hire not how
much Innovation you can deliver not how
many Engineers you can go higher right
and you basically like it becomes that
first line item in every Financial
calculation and it just self-perpetuates
um and that's so that's the biggest
thing I always ask like hey that's if
that's how you're doing operational
planning you kind of have to flip it on
its head and say how can we actually
bring more customers in what's our
average dollar per customer then is
their ability to actually bring in more
customers without tying it to every to
us every single deal to a salesperson
and that if you don't have that built in
your DNA or really in a company it's
very hard to add later
it's a smart takeaway and I I think uh
something that atlassian has done that
helps solve for that a bit is the
multi-product offering
um and you have multiple different
revenue streams and today it seems a
common consideration within startups
which is should we launch another
product can we generate more revenue
from within our existing base and even
more Revenue per customer as we acquire
them
um not to to jump around too much we
could spend an entire session just on
that but I'd love to revisit something
that you said earlier which is a small
portion I mean I don't remember the
exact percentage but a small portion of
your customers receive either like a
sales or account manager like human
based support like a traditional
Enterprise sales person is that defined
it by employee size how do you segment
the business and assign People based off
of who they are serving yeah so we call
that account management team our
Enterprise Advocates
um so that's the name um and effectively
it's based on and yeah we have tiers we
have our you know Platinum accounts our
gold accounts our silver accounts and
different coverage models across each of
those uh basically to get in those it's
uh potential and largely you know
potential share wallet so basically
which just comes out largely with our
products how many employees you have and
existing spent
um so what I don't what I want to make
sure is by the time we engage in
expensive sales resource that one
there's lots of opportunity to count but
the customers effectively bought into
atlassian
right because we know if we can get that
I can engage a sales rep to a customer
that's already pretty standard already
like sees the value in US might but has
multiple expansion vectors and we also
know those expansion vectors are very
large then I know I can hold largely
very large quotas for those teams so
when I do engage in a one-to-one
conversation the return is huge compared
to most inside sales or even field sales
organizations
that makes a lot of sense
um again could sort of like go go much
deeper there and spend actually let's do
go one layer deeper
um what is this sort of like mechanism
that you use to define that you meant
you mentioned potential
um and so do you have historical data
that suggests certain employee types or
segments grow at specific rates or like
for the folks that are listening how
should they apply what has been so
successful at atlassian to their
business
um
oh that's scary um and this comes in
multiple so first off is once again
exceedingly patient so before anyone
gets an enterprise Enterprise Advocate
we probably have five
maybe even 10 years of historic sales
data with that customer we know what
they've bought we know how they've grown
we know if they like we basically
understand that historic trend line
you know and something we always says
okay maybe that customer's organically
grown 30 year on year by adding users
and adding products well if I'm gonna
add as expensive sales rep I need to
ensure that there's an opportunity to
grow that account 50 year over year for
the next five years like that's how we
think about that
um because otherwise I'm going to eat
into operating margin or I'm going to
eat into r d Spence like that that cost
so but we've basically calculated where
um I know of my certain code I need to
maintain on my rep to ensure we preserve
our operating model as a business you
know basic sales marketing spend profit
and r d spend so I know that constraint
that I work within and once I work on
that constraint we can apply that math
to potential within our existing
customer accounts yeah so we look at it
takes a lot of work but it's one of
those where you largely have to
understand like that customer has 10 000
employees
and they're using 2 000 employees
licensed and they have three products
and we have 15. it's not that hard of
math to understand what that potential
is in each one of those accounts as long
as it's big enough we can apply it
Enterprise Advocate to it
uh super helpful what's going through my
mind is is you're talking is
um I imagine there's there's some
Evolution that takes place here uh I've
done segmentation at um every company
that I've been at whether it was Echo
signs and if it's Rex
um and it initially starts like many
things as a bit of an art where you sort
of Define like here are the types of
companies we think should be a segment
line regardless of whether it's like you
know sales rep you're assigned to this
segment or customer we think you could
grow into this this uh larger business
starts as an art form as the business
matures and uh thank God for Revenue
operations a function that uh has just
been instrumental in in my personal
success and the success of the
businesses that I've been at they will
take a lot of the data and um be more
strategic with how resources are
deployed as you receive more and more
information about the types of customers
that do grow and uh the segment lines
and maybe where there should be be based
off of uh Data Insights versus again
this sort of like this seems like an
interesting round number
yeah
um like when we first added sales reps
it was largely we had just created a
scale version of our product like we
call it the data center Edition so we
basically finally had a product that was
built for large customers and what I say
is had an asp high enough where it made
sense to call customers back that's what
we didn't talk about pricing but our
price used to be so low it didn't make
sense to pick up the phone right so with
the data center offering we largely and
it started like but we didn't really
have a proactive account model what we
basically realized is hey what customers
are having scaled challenges
yeah and let's Market to those customers
we know who they are because we see
their support tickets let's email them
hey we have something for you you know
and see who signs up right who raises
their hand and yeah we Applied Sales to
those so it was purely almost reactive
in those early days of course as we got
smarter we were able to go okay what are
the customers that looks smell and taste
like this you know and then we could
build richer and richer segmentation as
we've grown
um but like that first part is like just
where where's the organic demand coming
from can we scale that
uh uh all all really interesting
takeaways as we're talking through a lot
of these things that the thing that's
going through my mind is I've been a
user of atlassian products at uh every
company
um and I joined companies at uh around
the same size like 10 to 20 employees uh
I've been with companies I I remember
you know Adobe acquired Echo sign Adobe
is tens of thousands of employees as an
Enterprise and So based off of my
personal experience and also
reputationally atlassian seems unique in
that you serve some of the the smallest
companies in the world
um you know just a few folks uh at the
company all the way to the largest
companies in the world and I think about
Enterprise software and that is
um uncommon you think about the work
days of the world and it's sort of like
a specific uh size range for the types
of companies that they serve you think
about Intuit and again it's sort of like
a very specific segment of the market
that they are going after and so from
sort of like a product strategy uh
standpoint
how have you been so successful at
developing and acquiring customers of
all different sizes
um
so the first off as we said what is our
customer what are we building software
for
and we've started as our customer is a
team
you know or a set of teams within a
large organization so our goal is to not
land Adobe our goal is to land a small
team within Adobe largely to use our
products for free until they hit 11
users that's where our feed or our pay
gate is so the first 10 years of our
business was all about Landing teams we
never did a top-down and ever talked to
the CIO we didn't do Gartner forest or
any of that stuff it was let's just go
get a bunch of teams we priced our
products and made our self-serve
flywheel so easy that any team that
needed to work better together we could
enable those teams and for all this
purposes you know getting a team of 10
people at largest bank in the world kind
of have the same set of needs as the 10
person startup they have like hey we
have a set of work we need to get done
how do we track and manage that
granted and just so you know like when I
started in 2012 just so to show our
pricing support of this in 2012 the most
expensive thing you could buy from
atlassian was eight thousand dollars
an unlimited license unlimited users on
jira was 8 000 bucks a year with a four
thousand dollar renewal right which
shows like that's 10 years in the
business that we had that model it was
only once we actually realized that
these big Enterprise customers were like
we need scale we need Administration we
need we need all the Enterprise
abilities that's what we've been
building over the last 10 years and
monetizing appropriately
and and so then is the takeaway there
that 10 years ago uh most of the
customers were and I don't know what the
definition would be like but but like uh
under a certain employee threshold
because you talked about what you found
at this price point of uh I think you
said um eight thousand dollars for
unlimited users and you found that like
Enterprise needs were maybe more
sophisticated or something like that
then that offering provided and so is is
at lasting a bit of the the traditional
story of start down Market push continue
pushing up market and then um before you
know it you're serving in in your case
the largest banks in the world yeah and
in 2012 we have the largest banks in the
world they'd call us but they we'd have
would they'd almost be like 30 different
customers like like eventually someone
calls up and like Hey we're using like
10 different licenses of jira we need to
have an Enterprise agreement and I'd
look them up like actually you own 35
licenses of jira like they would we were
so Bottoms Up that we proliferate but we
never treated that as like one account
that needed to be Consolidated and
managed we treated that largely as like
a bunch of independent teams Within
These big businesses granted for the
last 10 years it's all been about
building a strategic partnership
consolidating that both on a technology
perspective building the capabilities
they need but also from a licensing
perspective you know ensuring that they
can actually have a longer term strategy
and we still have that today like many
of our biggest customers will literally
have dozens of our products deployed and
actually not even know who's using all
of it
uh that'll that all makes sense what's
going through my mind is sort of a
version of something that we talked
about earlier
um which was you know you mentioned that
there's this demand and potentially
willingness to pay so much more than the
eight thousand dollars for the unlimited
license
um and and what is going through my mind
is like bit of a missed opportunity
there or like maybe could have acquired
more Revenue had we had this offering
earlier or something like that nice
appointed question earlier which was
like if you could go back or if you
started a company today knowing what you
know would you start the same way with
this product LED sales versus building a
sales team if you could afford it more
broadly just sort of like a variation of
that is there anything that you uh have
learned throughout the evolution that
you would do differently as it relates
to uh sales first versus product LED
growth um
listen every model is going to be
different
so first off I would look that's a big
question and it also says depends
um like the reality is you can't sell an
HR Work Management solution you can't go
sell a workday Bottoms Up no one in like
one day is like you know what I'm gonna
go build my own like there are certain
technology categories that require
centralized top-down decision making for
the entire business you know Erp systems
work you know now that's it so up at our
applications which are on team
collaboration you can use bottom stuff
like this versus is my product strategy
something where we can drive Bottoms Up
organic adoption with a small set of
users within an account like that's that
you just have to ask yourself that
question up front then I'd basically say
is would you say would I do would I buy
higher sales or go focus on self-serve I
would always
I'll tell you it's a lot easier
to build a self-service business first
and add sales later then build a sales
driven business first and add self-serve
later
um and that's the problem I run into a
lot of startups today is they built this
sales pipeline their entire Financial
forecast is based off of sales hiring
and quote entertainment
and then they're like great we need to
add product lead I'm like great you're
gonna slow down
you've got to take 20 of that funnel
that you're driving into your sales team
today and tell your sales team they
can't touch that and on top of that
build all the muscles that you haven't
built around a self-serve onboarding
product experience self-serve demos you
have to put pricing on the website and
actually stand by all that stuff and
people for like don't actually
understand how complex
a self-serve enterprise software journey
is it's a hell of a lot more complex
than just adding a Shopify to your
website and clicking buy there's a yeah
so and unless you have that DNA in your
business from the start really hard to
add later
a lot of what you said is so smart
um you said something that was you know
it's it's it's a lot and I'm
paraphrasing it's a lot easier to start
with self-serve and then add sales later
than sort of like the inverse than that
um the inverse of that I remember when
uh I joined brex uh we haven't launched
yet we were still in beta we had a
number of customers they were relatively
like friends and family customers a lot
of the YC classmates of Pedro and
Enrique and I remember talking with
Enrique about some of the risks of me
joining and building out a sales team
because that's what uh cro does uh and
what he flagged and I'm not sure if this
was Enrique's flag or maybe an investors
flag or something like that but it was
it was something along the lines of you
know if you put in uh uh successful
sales one
um downside or potential downside of
that is it can mask uh product Market
fit related issues that you can be
acquiring customers because uh the sales
people are really good at doing just
that and in a way like not having sales
in atlassian it was a forcing function
for the product to be so good that it
almost acquired customers on its own
um and so you know it seems at least in
this case to have paid long-term
long-term dividends to your point
earlier like this isn't one size fits
all there are certain buyers there are
certain product types that will require
a um seller a a person to sell
um and uh uh you have to sort of like be
reactive to that um but hopefully lots
of data that comes out of this
conversation that's helpful in
determining what is best for your
business
um that that's sort of the goal
um we we talked a little bit earlier
about atlassian being one of the most
successful companies that has launched
so many different sort of like house
household name like products has
anything related to being a product LED
business allowed you to grow your
product Suite faster
well first off is we because of our
model just went back to the operational
model we spent 15 one to five percent of
Revenue on sales and marketing roughly
mid-teens
um which is a fraction of any company
that's in Enterprise software of our
size and we spend call it 35 to 40
percent on r d
so one advantage immediately of that is
one for a customer every dollar they
spend with us they get more engineering
you know like that's just a quarter of
the value but also on top of that we
have more Engineers so we can build more
products and if we can build more
products than our land and expand
flywheel model only gets enhanced we
have more and more things to offer our
customers it's a nice little
self-perpetuating Loop
um
that's at least okay we get to build
more products because we can financially
afford to do that selling multiple
products is a completely different
exercise you know um but it's something
that very early on Mike and Scott
that just made the decision and I think
it's like you could say with his
forethought or just hey they thought
some cool Tech we should go build some
stuff
um but if you look at every big software
company today the biggest companies in
the world Microsoft sap or they're all
multi-product company organic you know
or inorganic you know like you have to
like if you're going to be one of the
biggest companies software companies in
the world which we want to be you have
to be a multi-product company and we
built that DNA in our business really
really early I'll tell you as I run
sales marketing customer success and
support the hardest part of my job
um is actually balancing go to market
across multiple products because
everyone wants everything right and you
actually do have to stack Rank and
prioritize what my expansion paths are
based off different products in
different customer segments
uh I remember recently I think Jason had
a tweet about earlier stage companies
that had sort of hit
um uh an inflection point or or
something in their growth where they
reached a bit of a plateau and that a
couple of his portfolio companies and
I'm paraphrasing here and I hope I'm
getting it right
um a couple of his portfolio companies
had launched second third
um maybe even like fourth products in
that uh created some accelerated Revenue
growth better net dollar retention just
that that uh focus on launching a new
successful product and so for the folks
out there which it seems to be such a a
common thing to do today is launching
additional product lines because of what
I just described what has worked really
well for atlassian you've launched I
think 20 plus at this point
um anything that comes to mind let's
start sort of like big picture at the
company level like what are some things
that are just Lessons Learned on what
has worked in launching a new product
and then maybe more tactically or
specifically as it relates to go to
market anything that your organization
has done as new product launches come
out that have been really effective
um a couple things worth considering and
I'll say land and expand model our
flywheel self-serve business is land and
expand we land customers for free in one
product we expand them into paid
editions and to multiple products so one
of the first things you got to realize
with any new product you introduce
is it a land
product like are we going after a new
buyer a new cohort or a new segment or
are we going after an expand product
which is I have a jira software customer
and I can sell them Confluence because
that's radio Tech documentation like it
it's I'll tell you is we confused
ourselves a lot
over multiple years on that one where
we'd actually have an expand product I
wish we should be cross-selling this
into the base but we think it's a land
product it's going to acquire tens of
thousands and I'll tell you from a go to
market tactics perspective you simply do
way different things to build a land
product than you do an expand product
period just as far as how you think
about paid channels versus own channels
how you think about branding how you
think about naming how you think about
pricing you name it so that's the first
thing I'd be very clear on is this is an
expansion opportunity or is this a land
opportunity for us
um I'll tell you expand in general is
always easier for immediate Revenue
because it's always easier to sell
existing customers something and to go
commits a new one but if you're going to
do expansion
uh think about what I was called as
you've already trained your customer how
to buy from you
like we've trained this but something
about Jerry's Optimus they've been
trained they know where to go they know
how where their information is their
account information that entire
purchasing workflow and they know what
the rough price is
so if we come up with something new that
we want to sell that person it better
look smell and taste a whole lot like
the first product they bought from us
which can be super constraint because we
could build a product they're like
actually because of competitors we
should be charging 5x for this product
than we are for jira but like but also
if I'm coming in and customers paying
five dollars a user for jiren we come
with a new product that's 30 a user
they're gonna be like what the hell you
know like this makes no sense so what I
also say is when you think about pricing
and packaging for your expand products
realize you've already trained them how
to buy so try and keep it as simple as
possible you know from a repeat purchase
perspective that it's as similar to
their first purchase then you don't have
to re-educate them on these new things
and just that makes your flywheel go
that's one big part I've learned on all
this if you're going to have a land
product I go completely the other way
with a land product you almost kind of
want to treat it as a separate business
right from a like you actually want
infinite flexibility on how you take
that product to Market because you're
trying to get a new set of cohort and
who knows what that new buyer audience
wants to buy and you can actually train
them accordingly now Trello is a big
product like that for us
that's awesome
um I uh am thoroughly enjoying this and
could go for many hours on end as I'm
sure our audience would probably prefer
as well I know that you have a uh very
important job to tend to so let's let's
end on
um a high note and uh just what's next
for atlassian
I think you have to say artificial
intelligence right isn't that what
everyone's saying like nowadays
Everyone's an AI every deck I'm now a VC
and I see a lot of uh AI pitches these
days there's uh it seems to be um now
our big uh user conference team 23 is in
third week of April that's where all the
big new announcements come from that's
where we show all the shiny new stuff so
I'd say tune in in April if you can make
it to team 23 in Vegas if you're
interested in atlassian please come join
us uh we'll be streaming it online as
well
Cameron uh thank you for doing this
you're a legend there are very few if
any folks who have been in a Croc uh at
a company where you have now been for a
decade I know your your personal
experience evolved a bit but uh now now
cro been with the business over a decade
one of the most successful enterprise
software companies in the world I really
appreciate you taking the time as I'm
sure the audience does as well
um this was awesome and we'll see you
folks that are listening back here next
time thank you thanks Sam
foreign
[Music]